[docs] Add a guide on how to deploy on railway (#3381)
mui/mui-toolpad: docs/data/toolpad/studio/how-to-guides/railway-deploy.md

# Deploy to Railway

<p class="description">You can host and share your Toolpad Studio apps on Railway in a few minutes, for free.</p>

> This guide walks you throught the deployment of [qr-generator](https://github.com/mui/mui-toolpad/tree/master/examples/qr-generator) example from the Toolpad repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you throught the deployment of the [qr-generator](https://github.com/mui/mui-toolpad/tree/master/examples/qr-generator) example from the Toolpad repository.
```

## Prerequisites

- A [Railway](https://railway.app/) account
- A [GitHub](https://github.com) account

> - A GitHub repository containing Toolpad Studio app. Check out [pushing Toolpad Studio app to GitHub](/toolpad/studio/how-to-guides/render-deploy/#pushing-your-toolpad-studio-app-to-github) for this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A GitHub repository containing your Toolpad Studio app. Check out [pushing your Toolpad Studio app to GitHub](/toolpad/studio/how-to-guides/render-deploy/#pushing-your-toolpad-studio-app-to-github) for this step.
```

## Creating a new app on Railway

1. From your Railway dashboard, click on **New Project** from the top-right corner and choose **Deploy from GitHub repo** form the drop-down.

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/railway-create-new-project.png", "alt": "Railway new project", "caption": "Creating a new Railway project", "indent": 1 }}

2. Depending on whether the visibility of the repository is set to private or public, you may need to connect your GitHub account to Railway using **Configure GitHub App**. Once done, you'll see a list of repositories to choose from.

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/choose-repository.png", "alt": "Choosing the repository", "caption": "Choosing the repository", "indent": 1 }}

3. Select the repository and click **Deploy Now**. Railway can guess that you are deploying a Node app.

> 4. The default build may fail as some config changes are required. On the deployment screen, you'll see four tabs, navigate to the **Settings** tab and update the root directory as shown below.

Reviewer: Can we create an example where the default deployment does not fail, and talk about this as a special case at the end? I think this creates an expectation that you need to always change the default root directory when deploying a Toolpad app, which is not correct.

I'd recommend creating a new repository with a Toolpad app and using that to create the deployment guide. Creating a FAQs or Advanced section at the end where you can discuss what to do if your app fails, which can include variable setting and root directory configuration.

Author: > I think this creates an expectation that you need to always change the default root directory when deploying a Toolpad app, which is not correct.

The default deployment also fails due to the PORT variable. Regarding changing the root directory, I think it would be required in most cases, as the user may have a folder containing the toolpad app. I'll remove the 'may fail' part, but I think we should add this step to the guide. 

> I'd recommend creating a new repository with a Toolpad app. 
Yes, we can do it. I thought keeping it from examples would be ok. We can decide, and the same example folder/repository could be used for other guides.

Reviewer: > > I think this creates an expectation that you need to always change the default root directory when deploying a Toolpad app, which is not correct.
> 
> The default deployment also fails due to the PORT variable. Regarding changing the root directory, I think it would be required in most cases, as the user may have a folder containing the toolpad app. I'll remove the 'may fail' part, but I think we should add this step to the guide.
> 

The `toolpad` folder doesn't have to be the root directory - in this scenario as well, you've set the root to `examples/qr-generator` and not `examples/qr-generator/toolpad`. I think we should address the happy path in the instructions and then address edge cases at the end. 

Regards the `PORT` variable, as far as I can see, Railway lets you add variables before the first deployment, and nudges you to redeploy once the variable is added:

![Screenshot 2024-04-11 at 2 33 17 PM](https://github.com/mui/mui-toolpad/assets/19550456/97126b72-8ac5-44af-a34c-ff93680ff40e)

I think we can follow this process with an independent repository, and then address as the variables and root configuration settings as FAQs in the end, something like:

### Common reasons for failed deployment

- A `PORT` variable is not set. Click the **Settings*** button and go to the **Variables** tab to add a `PORT` variable. If you haven't changed the default port on which your Toolpad Studio app runs, set the value of this variable to 3000.

- Your `root` directory is not configured. In some cases, your Toolpad Studio app might be placed inside a subdirectory of a larger repository on GitHub. In that case, navigate to the **Settings** tab and update the root directory as follows:

Author: An independent repository that I can use: https://github.com/Prakhar-org/qr-generator. Does this look ok? It is under an org name Prakhar-org and we'll use it for all future deployment guides.

With the above repo and setting port variable before deployment should make it a happy flow. I'll make these changes to the doc.

Author: An independent repository that I can use: https://github.com/Prakhar-org/qr-generator. It is under an org name Prakhar-org and we'll use it for all future deployment guides. Does this look ok? 

With the above repo, setting port variable before deployment should make it a happy flow. I'll make these changes to the doc.

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/configure-root-directory.png", "alt": "Configuring the root directory", "caption": "Configuring the root directory", "indent": 1 }}

> 5. Scroll down and click on **Generate Domain** to create a public URL, you can also create a custom URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Scroll down and click on **Generate Domain** to create a public URL. You can also create a custom URL.
```

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/generate-domain.png", "alt": "Generating a public URL", "caption": "Generating a public URL", "indent": 1 }}

6. The build and start commands commands are set to

   ```bash
   $ npm run build
   $ npm run start
   ```

   by default. You can leave this unchanged.

> 7. Toolpad Studio apps run on PORT 3000, navigate to the Variables tab add a PORT variable and set its value to 3000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Toolpad Studio apps run on port 3000, so navigate to the **Variables** tab to add a `PORT` variable and set its value to 3000.
```

3. Select the repository and click on **Add Variables**. Any environment variables that your app needs can be set up now.

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/add-variable.png", "alt": "Adding variable", "caption": "Adding a variable","indent": 1 }}

4. Toolpad Studio apps run on port 3000, so add a `PORT` variable and set its value to 3000.

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/add-port-as-a-variable.png", "alt": "Adding port as a variable", "caption": "Adding PORT as a variable", "indent": 1 }}

5. On the same UI, go to the Settings tab, scroll down and and click on **Generate Domain** to create a public URL. You can also create a custom URL.

{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/generate-domain.png", "alt": "Generating a public URL", "caption": "Generating a public URL", "indent": 1 }}

6. If you scroll below, you'll see that the build and start commands are set to

   ```bash
   $ npm run build
   $ npm run start
   ```

   by default. You can leave this unchanged.

> 7. Now a floating Deploy button will be shown on the top. Click it and the build starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. A floating Deploy button appears on the canvas. Click it and the build starts.
```

> {{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/deploy.png", "alt": "Generating a public URL", "caption": "Generating a public URL", "indent": 1 }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{"component": "modules/components/DocsImage.tsx", "src": "/static/toolpad/docs/studio/deploy-railway/deploy.png", "alt": "Deploying app", "caption": "Deploying app", "indent": 1 }}
```

8. Once this is successfully complete, you can access your Toolpad Studio app from the public URL available on the card.

> That's it! The app is up and running. Make changes, push to GitHub, and your app automatically redeploys each time. Like Railway, you can deploy to any hosting provider of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it! The app is up and running. Make changes, push to GitHub, and your app automatically redeploys each time. You may deploy to any other hosting provider of your choice as well.
```

Make changes, push to GitHub, and your app automatically redeploys each time. Like Railway, you can deploy to any hosting provider of your choice.

Check out the Railway documentation for more advanced settings, like adding [variables](https://docs.railway.app/guides/variables) to your app.

### Common Pitfalls

> 1. Sometimes the build may fail as your app could be in a different directory. To configure the right path, navigate to the **Settings** tab and update the root directory.

Reviewer: We could probably add an image to this section as well, to demonstrate what it means to update the root directory.
